Now let's actually install Alertmanager so that it knows what to do with these alerts.
Now we need to go into our AWS console and get
that host name again for our Prometheus server.
Here in the AWS console,
we will just copy our host name once again,
and head over to the terminal and login.
We're going to use another terminal window,
so that we have two running at the same time.
Now we'll just SSH into our server,
using our PEM file and our username.
Now let's create a new directory called Alertmanager.
Now we need to download the Alertmanager from the Prometheus website.
We're going to do that using Wget.
Before we do that, let's go and get the URL for that downloadable.
Here on the Prometheus website,
we're just going to find the download that corresponds
with Alertmanager for our version of Linux,
copy link address, and then head back over to the terminal.
Now let's Wget our URL.
Now we're going to extract the file xvfz
and Alertmanager and go into that folder.
Now without any configuration changes at all,
we can actually start running our Alertmanager.
We see here that it's listening on port 9093.
Let's go take a look at that port in our web browser.
We'll just paste our URL, our host name,
to our Prometheus server with port 9093 and now we see our Alertmanager.
It's not really doing anything yet because it's not been configured,
but it is at least accepting requests.
The next step is to tell Prometheus
about our Alertmanager so they can start communicating.
For that I'm going to go into the Prometheus configuration and make a small modification.
Here I'll stop Prometheus and in my favorite text editor,
I'm going to make a change to the Prometheus.yml file.
You've seen this before and you've been waiting for this moment,
just uncomment that line,
and change Alertmanager with localhost, still port 9093.
Why localhost? Well, because
our Prometheus instance is actually the same as the Alertmanager instance,
and so they're on the same machine,
they can both communicate just using localhost.
Save and exit.
Now you can start Prometheus back up.
If you want to take a look again at the Alertmanager,
you're not going to see much,
because there isn't really an alert yet to manage.
Now we're going to give Alertmanager something to send out, we'll use Slack.
We'll go back to Alertmanager,
the terminal that we had opened for Alertmanager and we'll stop that, just for a moment.
Now we're going to modify the configuration for Alertmanager.
As you could guess,
there's an Alertmanager.yml that we can modify.
Now this file actually comes with some
built-in or some default settings and we don't really need any of these,
so we're just going to remove all of this.
Instead, we're going to paste in the configuration that's suggested by the tutorial.
Now this time, I'm not going to try to fix
the indentation because I want to show you what happens.
We'll just exit here and save,
and we'll try to run the Alertmanager once again.
All right, so we got an error.
This is a lot of text,
but what you can do,
is find the place where it gives you a line number.
I know it's hard to see in this wall of text,
but it basically, it fails all the way down to here,
loading configuration file failed and then it shows you over here,
yaml line nine did not find expected key.
When you see did not find expected key,
probably what it means is,
there was an indentation missing,
a space missing and so we've got to make sure that the indentation is right on.
Let's get back in and fix that problem.
Fixing the indentation is usually about two spaces,
there, that's probably much better.
Let's go over this file real quick.
Again, the global variables are going to be
something that affects the rest of this configuration file.
Here I have a Slack API URL because I want this alert to go to Slack,
and so I had to go through the instructions to go and get this web hook URL from Slack.
I've got a route,
which shows my receiver is Slack notifications.
You could have multiple routes.
Then we're going to have here a list of receivers where the name is Slack notifications.
I could change this to another name,
but it would be a different type of receiver,
a different type of route.
I'm going to stick with Slack notifications.
It is actually built in so that you can send
Slack notifications without adding any new software, any new files.
Now I'm going to give Slack configs a channel.
So if I have in my Slack channel,
in my Slack team I've got a monitoring instances channel,
so that means all of these notifications are going to go to that channel.
Then send a resolve to just a callback that comes back
to Alertmanager to make sure that it knows that everything was fine.
I'm going to save this configuration and rerun Alertmanager.
Listening on port 9093, all is well.
Here we are again in Alertmanager and you're not going to see,
again, really anything going on.
Because right now we don't have any of our instances that are really suffering for RAM.
In order to get a good test of the Alertmanager with a Slack message,
we need to give it something a little bit more controllable,
like an up-time or
a instance app status that we can control by just turning off an instance in EC2.
We'll go over that just a little bit more after you finish the exercise.